---
title: "Principles of Security and Cycle of Life of Information"
---

## Security and Information

### Data and Information

Data is like the piece of knowledge without it's context, ex: you know how much an enterprise did this month, that was about R$ 40.000 reais, but with this information, you can't tell projections about the future of this enterprise. Information, on the opposite way, is the knowledge with it's context, so you can tell the projections about the future knowing how much the enterprise is doing in his history. With the information type of data, there is a perception of the value, but with no context data there isn't.

Life cycle of information:

- Creation;
- Transfer;
- Handling;
- Discard.

The information should be protected in all those steps. Making use of cryptography can be very useful when dealing with security of information. There enters the symmetric encryption (uses the same key) and asymmetric encryption (uses different keys), on both cases the information will be encrypted when transferring and on the destination, the key to decrypt can be used to access the information

Tip: Compact the important archives in removable media with a password.

Hard Disk shredder have to be prepared for the task, because the information should be discarded well, breaking it in a lot of little pieces.

### Aspects of Security Information

- Confidentiality: Ability to access information only for those who have authorization;
- Integrity: Possibility of changing the information by authorized persons or systems;
- Availability: The ability to access information at any time by persons or systems authorized to do so;
- Authenticity: Ensures that the information was generated by an authorized person or system;
- Legality: It aligns information and/or processes with norms, ordinances, laws and any other normative documents, each in its respective sphere of attribution and scope;
- Non Repudiation: It relates to the fact that the issuer denies authorship of disclosed information. It is also known as irreversibility;

## Physical Security and Access Control

### Physical Security

Imagine it as an onion with a lot of layers, each layer is a security layer. The layers are juxtaposed, allowing the vulnerability of one to be covered by others.

Ex: Security cams, temperature controls, fire extinguisher, sprinkles (sometimes translated as automatic showers).

### Logical Security

Ex: Firewall, cryptography, passwords, control access lists, digital readers, etc. Also, those mechanisms are juxtaposed.

### Symmetric Cryptography

Make use of simples math functions and a unique key for encryption and decryption.

| Algorithm | Size of key |
|---|---|
| AES (Rijnadel) | 128, 192 e 256 bits |
| Twofish |	128, 192 e 256 bits |
| Serpent |	128, 192 e 256 bits |
| Blowfish|	32 a 448-bits |
| RC4 |	40-128 bits |
| 3DES |168 bits |
| IDEA |	128 bits |

### Asymmetric Cryptography

Has a public key for decryption (will be stored in a trustable server) and a private key for encryption (will be the user key).

### Firewall, Intrusion Detector Systems and VPNs

These controls allow the creation of security zones inside and outside the institution. The rules of firewalls can be:

- Deny as Standard: Will deny access unless it's authorized;
- Allow as Standard: Will allow access unless it's denied.

# Footer

- **Class**: Information Security
- **Theme**: Principles of Security and Cycle of Life of Information